---
layout: page
title:  Implement Security and Compliance in Azure DevOps pipeline
category: IaC
order: 10
---

In this lab we will Configure Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment of Azure SQL Database using Visual Studio Team Services and Visual Studio


<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">DevOps MPP Course Source </span></h3>

- This lab is used in course <a href="https://www.edx.org/course/infrastructure-code-microsoft-devops200-2x-0" target="_blank"><span style="color: #0066cc;" color="#0066cc">DevOps200.2x: Infrastructure as Code</span></a> - Module 4.

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Pre-requisites:</span></h3>

- An Azure account
- [Visual Studio 2017 Community Edition](https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/community/)
- [Git command prompt tools](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Lab Tasks:</span></h3> 


- Create and Configure VSTS environment
- Create Azure SQL Database target infrastructure
- Initiate Deployment
  

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Estimated Lab Time:</span></h3>

- approx. 80 minutes  


  
### Task 1: Create and Configure VSTS environment


 
1.	On your local machine navigate to <a href="https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/" target="_blank"><span style="color: #0066cc;" color="#0066cc">https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/</span></a>

2.	When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

3.	When prompted, provide a unique name to assign to the Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) account. Select the option to manage code using **Git** and specify the Azure region to host your project. 

4.	Once you signed in to your newly provisioned account, create a new project. Set the project name to **AzureSQLDbProject**, set the version control to **Git** and the work item process to **Agile**. 

5.	After the projects gets created, from its page in the VSTS portal, click **Clone in Visual Studio**. When prompted, click **Allow**. This will start **Visual Studio** with the new project open. 

6.	In the **Team Explorer** window, click the **Clone this repository** link, accept the default values for the local repository location and click **Clone** 

7.	Next, click **New** in the **Solutions** section of the Team Explorer window. This will display the New Project dialog box. From there, click **SQL Server** in the list of installed templates, ensure that the **SQL Server Database Project** is selected, specify a project name, ensure that the **Add to source control** checkbox is selected, and click **OK**. This will create **Database1** project. 

8.	Click **Solution Explorer**. In the **Solution Explorer** window, right click **Database1**, in the drop-down menu, click **Add** and click **Table**.  

9.	In the **Add New Item – Database 1** dialog box, ensure that **Table** is selected and click Add.  
 
*We will accept the default table definition, since our intention is to demonstrate the process of continuous integration and continuous deployment, however, in real-life scenarios,your database structure would obviously be more elaborate. The process of configuring described in this lab would not change in this case.*
 
10.	In the Solution Explorer window, right-click **Database1** and, in the right-click menu, click **Properties**. In the **Project Settings** window, in the **Target platform** drop down list, click **Microsoft Azure SQL Database V12**. 

11.	Click **File** and, in the **File** menu, click **Save All**. 

12.	To commit the project to your repository, switch to the **Team Explorer** window, click **Changes**, enter a message describing the changes you made and click **Commit**.  

13.	Next, click the **Sync** link and then, on the Synchronization page within the Team Explorer window, in the **Outgoing Commits**, click **Push** to push changes to **VSTS**. 

14.	Switch back to the VSTS interface and refresh the project page. You will be presented with the **Set up Build** command button in the Use continuous integration. This will display the Create new build definition window.   

15.	In the Create new build definition window, click **Visual Studio** in the list of templates and click **Next**. Accept the default repository source, repository, default branch, enable the **Continuous integration (build whenever this branch is updated)** checkbox, and click **Create**.  

16.	On the Build tab of the Build Definitions page, accept the default sequence of build steps and click **Save**. 

17.	In the Save dialog box, specify a name describing the build definition (we will call it **Default Build**) and click **OK**.  

18.	Now you can queue the build by clicking **Queue new build** on the Build definitions page. On the **Queue build for Default Build**, accept the default settings and click **OK**. This will automatically display the Console view on the **Builds** tab in the **Build & Release** section, showing progress of the build process.  
 
*To validate the outcome, refresh the Builds tab, click Artifacts and click Explore. In the 
Artifacts Explorer window, drill down the folder hierarchy until you reach the DACPAC 
file generated by the build. This file will result in an update of a target Azure SQL	 
database during code releases once you configure continuous deployment.*
 

 
### Task 2:  Create Azure SQL Database target infrastructure

Next, you need to create the target Azure SQL Database instance that you will deploy the build to by using continuous deployment. To accomplish this, start a new Internet Explorer window and browse to the Azure portal. If prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.  

1.	In the Azure portal, click **New**, on the **New** blade, click **Databases**, and, on the **Databases** blade, click **SQL Database**. 

2.	Create a new SQL Database with the following settings: 
    - Database name: **sqldb1**
    - Subscription: **your Azure subscription**
    - Resource group: **DevOpsLab4bRG** 
    - Select source: **Blank database** 
    - Server: **create a new server with the following settings:** 
        - Server name: **a unique, valid name** 
        - Server admin login: **Student**
        - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
        - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd** 
        - Location: **an Azure region close to the lab location**  
        - Allow azure services to access server: **Enabled** 
    - Want to use SQL elastic pool?: **Not now**  
    - Pricing tier: **Basic** 
    - Collation: **accept the default**

3.	Switch back to the VSTS interface and, in the **Build & Release** section, click the **Releases** tab and click **+ New definition**.  

4.	In the **Create release definition** window, click the **Empty** template and click **Next**. On the **Artifacts** page, make sure that the current settings point to the **Default Build** build definition you created earlier. Enable the **Continuous deployment (create release and deploy whenever a build completes** checkbox and click **Create**. This will create a new release definition and display its **Environments** tab. 

5.	On the Environments tab, click **Add tasks**.  

6.	In the **Task catalog** window, click **Add** next to **Azure SQL Database Deployment** and then click **Close**.  

7.	In the **Execute Azure SQL: DacpacTask** section, configure the following settings:  
    - Azure Connection Type: **Azure Resource Manager**  
    - Azure RM Subscription: the subscription where you created the Azure SQL database. Once you select it, click **Authorize** and, when prompted, sign in to your subscription.  
    - Azure SQL Server Name: **the name of Azure SQL server you created (including the .database.windows.net suffix)**  
    - Database Name: **sqldb1**  
    - Server Admin Login: **Student** 
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
    - Type: **SQL DACPAC File**  
    - DACPAC File: the full path to the .DACPAC file included in the build. Click the ellipsis (…) on the right hand side and, in the Select File or Folder dialog box, drill down through the folder hierarchy to the Database1.dacpac file. 
    - Specify Firewall Rules Using: **AutoDetect** 
    - Delete Rule After Task Ends: **enabled**  
    - Control options: 
        - Enabled: **enabled**  
        - Continue on error: **leave cleared**  
        - Always run: **leave cleared**  
        -Timeout: **0**  

8.	Click **Save** and, in the **Save** dialog box, click **OK**. 

### Task 3: Initiate Deployment

1.	Click **+Release**, followed by **Create Release** to initiate deployment of the DACPAC file to the target Azure SQL database.  

2.	In the Create new release window, click **Create**. Finally, click the link **Release-1**. 

3.	In the **Environments** section, monitor the status of the deployment and verify that the outcome was successful. 
 
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Summary</span></h3>

In this lab you have created and configured Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment in VSTS to deploy into Azure SQL database. You have completed the following tasks:

- Create and Configure VSTS environment
- Create Azure SQL Database target infrastructure
- Initiate Deployment