

---
layout: page
title:  DevOps200.2x: Infrastructure as Code
category: IaC
order: 2
---
  

<h2><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Module 2 Labs: Azure Automation DSC </span></h2>



<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Lab Tasks:</span></h3> 


- Create a DSC configuration file, import it into the automation account and compile it. 
- Onboard Azure VMs for Automation DSC (Portal)
  

 
  
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Create a DSC configuration file, import it into the automation account and compile it. </span></h3> 
1. On the lab VM, create the following Windows PowerShell DSC Configuration file and save it as LabConfig.ps1 in your Documents folder: 

```powershell
configuration LabConfig 
 { 
     Node WebServer 
     { 
         WindowsFeature IIS 
         { 
             Ensure = 'Present' 
             Name = 'Web-Server' 
             IncludeAllSubFeature = $true 
         } 
     } 
} 
```
2.	From the lab VM, in the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, navigate to the Automation account you created in the previous module. From the Azure Automation account blade, navigate to the **DSC Configurations** blade and import and compile the configuration script you created in the previous task. Verify that the compilation job completed successfully. 
 
 
  
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Onboard Azure VMs for Automation DSC (Portal)</span></h3>  	 
1.	In the Azure portal, from the Automation account blade, navigate to the DSC Nodes blade. 
2.	Add both Azure VMs to the Automation account and specify for each the following settings: 

- Registration key: **Primary key** 
- Node Configuration Name: **LabConfig.WebServer** 
- Refresh Frequency: **30** 
- Configuration Mode Frequency: **15** 
- Configuration Mode: **ApplyAndAutoCorrect**
- Allow Module Override: **check the checkbox** 
- Reboot Node if Needed: **check the checkbox**
- Action after Reboot: **Continue Configuration** 
3.	Wait for the configuration to apply. You can verify that changes took effect by browsing to the public IP address of the load balancer. 
 
