---
layout: page
title:  DevOps200.2x Infrastructure as Code - M04 Azure Automation Labs
category: IaC
order: 5
---


<h1><span style="color: #0000CD;"> DevOps200.2x: Infrastructure as Code </strong></h1>


<h2><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Module 4 Labs: Deploying and Managing Environments in Azure  </span></h2>
 
======================================================


<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Lab Tasks:</span></h3> 


- Deploy a Chef server to Azure (Portal)
- Use Chef to configure Azure DevTest Lab VMs (Portal)
- Configure CI and CD of Azure SQL Database by using Visual Studio Team Services and Visual Studio 
  
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Deploy a Chef server to Azure (Portal)</span></h3> 
This lab depends on the following components: 

- [Putty.exe](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)
- [Google Chrome](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)
 
 
1.	From the lab VM, start Internet Explorer and navigate to the Azure portal. When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
2.	Deploy a new Chef Server 2012, BYOL image from the Azure Marketplace by using the Azure Resource Manager deployment model with the following settings (leave all other settings at their defaults): 

    - Host name: **chefsrv** 
    - VM disk type: **HDD** 
    - User name: **student** 
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234** 
    - Resource group: **DevOpsLab4aRG** 
    - Location: **an Azure region close to the lab location** 
    - VM size: **D2_V2** 
3.	Once the new Azure VM has been provisioned and is running, from the Azure portal, assign a unique public DNS name label to its public IP address.  Take a note of the resulting fully qualified DNS name.  
4.	From the lab VM, start putty.exe and connect from it to the Chef Server Azure VM. In the **Host name (or IP address)** text box, specify the fully qualified DNS name assigned to the 
Chef Server Azure VM. When prompted, in the **PuTTY Security Alert** dialog box, click **Yes**  
5.	Log on by using the credentials you specified when creating the Azure VM (**student** and **Pa55w.rd1234**)  
6.	Ensure that the Chef Server has completed its initial configuration by streaming the content of the **/var/log/cloud-init-output.log** file. To view changes in real time, run: 

```
tailf /var/log/cloud-init-output.log 
```
7.	Wait until the initial configuration completes. The final entries in the log should resemble the following:

```
Cloud-init v. 0.7.5 finished at Mon, 06 Mar 2017 23:00:55 +0000. Datasource DataSourceAzureNet [seed=/dev/sr0].  Up 983.02 seconds 
```

8.	To stop the **tailf** command, press **Ctrl+C**. Next, set the **FQDN** environment variable to the fully qualified DNS name of the Chef Server Azure VM by running the following: 
```
FQDN=’fully_qualified_domain_name’
```
 
where **’fully_qualified_domain_name’** represents the fully qualified DNS name of the Chef Server Azure VM. 
9.	Next, run the following commands to configure the Chef Server VM to be accessible via that FQDN: 
```
sudo rm /var/opt/opscode/nginx/etc/nginx.d/analytics.conf echo "api_fqdn '$FQDN'" | sudo tee -a /etc/chef-marketplace/marketplace.rb echo "analytics_fqdn '$FQDN'" | sudo tee -a /etc/opscode-analytics/opscodeanalytics.rb

sudo chef-marketplace-ctl hostname $FQDN sudo opscode-analytics-ctl reconfigure 

sudo chef-manage-ctl reconfigure 
```

10.	Once completed, from the lab VM, start Google Chrome and browse to 
**https:// 
’fully_qualified_domain_name’** where **’fully_qualified_domain_name’** represents the fully qualified DNS name of the Chef Server Azure VM. Click **ADVANCED** and then, click the link **Proceed to ’fully_qualified_domain_name’ (unsafe)** 
11.	When prompted, type the DNS name label (short name) you assigned to the public IP address of the Azure VM and click Submit 
12.	Click the link labeled **Click here to get started !**. 
 
*If you receive an error about Sign Up being disabled due to timeout, switch back to the PuTTY session and run the command:* 
```
Sudo chef-manage-ctl reconfigure
```

13.	On the **Welcome to Chef** page, fill out the form to create a Chef user account by providing the Full Name (your first and last name), Company name (cheflabs), Email (the email 
address of your Microsoft account), Username (student), and Password (Pa55w.rd1234) and 
selecting the **I agree to the Terms of Service and the Master License and Services Agreement** checkbox and click **Get Started**. 
14.	Next, click **Create New Organization**. 
15.	In the **Create Organization** dialog box, type in the Full Name (Chef Labs) and Short Name (cheflabs) of the new organization and click **Create Organization**.  
16.	Click the **Download Starter Kit** link and when prompted, click **Proceed**.  
17.	Click the downloaded file in the lower left corner of the Chrome window and click **Show in folder**. 
18.	Extract the content of the **chef-starter.zip** file into the **chef-starter** subfolder under the **Downloads** folder. 
19.	From the lab VM, start Command Prompt as Administrator, change the current directory to the **downloads\chef-starter\chef-repo\.chef** subfolder and run:
```
knife ssl fetch 
```

*This will place the certificates from the Azure VM in your trusted certificate store on the Azure VM.*
20.	Change the current directory to **chef-repo** and use **knife** to download the **learn_chef_iis** cookbook from the default repository by running:  
```
knife cookbook site download learn_chef_iis 
```
21.	Extract the content of the downloaded file by running:  
```
tar -zxvf learn_chef_iis-0.2.1.tar.gz -C ..\cookbooks 
```
This will automatically create a new subfolder named **leaern_chef.iis** under **chefstarter\chef-repo\cookbooks** 

22.	Upload the cookbook to the Chef Server Azure VM by running the following command from the chef-repo directory:  
```
knife cookbook upload learn_chef_iis 
```
23.	To verify that the upload has been successful, switch to the Google Chrome window and click the **Policy** tab in the Chef Server interface. You should see there an cookbook entry named learn_chef_iis. 
 
*At this point, you could deploy an Azure or an on-premises VM, configure it as a Chef client and deploy to it the newly uploaded cookbook. In our course, you will step through this process in the next exercise of this module. In the exercise, you will deploy an Azure VM by using an Azure DevTest lab.*
 
 
 
 
  
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Use Chef to configure Azure DevTest Lab VMs (Portal)</span></h3>  
1.	From the Azure portal, click **New**. On the **New** blade, click **Developer tool** and then, on the **Developer tools** blade, click **DevTest Labs**.  
2.	From the Create a DevTest Lab blade, create a DevTest lab with the following settings: 

- Lab name: **DevTestLab1** 
- Subscription: **your Azure subscription** 
- Location: **an Azure region close to the lab location** 
- Auto-shutdown: **Disabled**

3.	In the Azure portal, navigate to DevTestLab1 and, on the DevTestLab1 blade, click **Configuration and policies**. 
4.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Allowed virtual machine sizes**. 
5.	Enable the Allowed virtual machine sizes setting and limit the size choice to **Standard D2_V2** only. 
6.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Virtual machines per user**. 
7.	Limit the number of virtual machines per user to 1. 
8.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Virtual machines per lab**. 
9.	Limit the number of virtual machines per lab to 5. 
10.	In the **SCHEDULES** section, click **Auto-shutdown**. 
11.	Set the auto-shutdown to take place at 7:00PM your local time. 
12.	In the **SCHEDULES** section, click **Auto-start**. 
13.	Set the auto-start to take place at 7:00AM your local time on weekdays. 
14.	In the **EXTERNAL RESOURCES** section, click **Virtual networks**. 
15.	Note that the lab includes an auto-generated virtual network. You can modify its configuration, if needed. You can also customize the default behavior, which automatically assigns to VMs a shared public IP address. 
16.	In the **EXTERNAL RESOURCES** section, click **Repositories**. 
17.	Note that the lab is pre-configured with a **Public Repo** referencing https://github.com/Azure/azure-devtestlab.git , which includes artifacts and Azure Resource Manager templates you can use for VM deployment. You have the option of creating your own repositories (you can start by cloning the Public Repo). 
18.	In the **VIRTUAL MACHINE BASES** section, click **Marketplace images**. 
19.	Note that you have the option of modifying the default configuration, which allows al Azure Marketplace images as virtual machine bases and instead limiting selection to specific images only.  
20.	In the **VIRTUAL MACHINE BASES** section, click **Custom images (VHDs)**. 
21.	Note that you have the option of uploading custom images for lab VM deployment. 
22.	Scroll back to the **DevTestLab1** blade and click **My secrets**
23.	Create a secret named **WS2016Password** with the value **Pa55w.rd1234**
24.	On the **DevTestLab1** blade, click **Formulas (reusable bases)**. 
25.	Click **Add** and, on the **Choose a base** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**. 
26.	On the **Create formula (reusable bases)** blade, specify the following: 
    - Formula name: **WS2016DatacenterLabVM**
    - Description: **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter Lab VM** 
    - User name: **student** 
    - Password: **WS2016Password** 
    - Disk and size: accept the default (this is enforced via the **Allowed virtual machine sizes** setting you chose earlier) 
    - Virtual machine size: accept the default (this is enforced via the **Allowed virtual machine sizes** setting you chose earlier) 
    - Artifacts: **Chef Client** 
    - Chef Node Name: **labVM** 
    - Chef Server URL: **https://’fully_qualified_domain_name’/organizations/cheflabs**  where **’fully_qualified_domain_name’** represents the fully qualified DNS name of the Chef Server Azure VM 
    - validation Client Name: **cheflabs-validator** 
    - validation Key: **browse to the Downloads\chef-starter\chef-
    repo\.chef\cheflabs-validator.pem)** 
    - Run List: **recipe[learn_chef_iis]**
    - Client Configuration File: **leave blank** 
    - SSL Verification Mode: **none**
    - Chef environment tag: **_default**
    - Encrypted databag secret: **leave blank**
    - Chef Server SSL Certificate: **leave blank** 
    - Advanced settings: **leave at their defaults** 
27.	In the **MY LAB** section, click **My virtual machines** and then click **Add**. 
28.	On the **Choose a base** blade, click **WS2016DataCenterLabVM** formula. 
29.	On the **Virtual machine** name, in the **Virtual machine name** textbox, type **labVM0**, accept all remaining settings with their default values and click **Artifacts.** 
30.	On the **Add artifacts** blade, click the link **1 artifact(s) selected**. 
31.	On the **Selected artifacts** blade, click **Chef Client.** 
32.	On the **Add artifact** blade, set the **Chef Node Name** value to **labVM0**, verify that the validation key is set to **Downloads\chef-starter\chef-repo\.chef\cheflabs-validator.pem**, and click **OK**.  
33.	On the **Selected artifacts** blade, click **OK**. 
34.	On the **Add artifacts** blade, click **OK**. 
35.	On the **Virtual machine** blade, click **Create**. 
36.	Wait for the lab VM to be provisioned. Switch to the Chrome window and click the **Nodes** tab to verify that a newly provisioned VM is configured as a Chef client. 
  
<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Configure CI and CD of Azure SQL Database by using Visual Studio Team Services and Visual Studio  </span></h3> 
This lab depends on the following components: 

- [Visual Studio 2017 Community Edition](https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/community/)
- [Git command prompt tools](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
 
1.	On the lab VM, start Internet Explore and navigate to https://app.vsaex.visualstudio.com/profile/  
2.	When prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
3.	When prompted, provide a unique name to assign to the Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) account. Select the option to manage code using **Git** and specify the Azure region to host your project. 
4.	Once you signed in to your newly provisioned account, create a new project. Set the project name to **AzureSQLDbProject**, set the version control to **Git** and the work item process to **Agile**. 
5.	After the projects gets created, from its page in the VSTS portal, click **Clone in Visual Studio**. When prompted, click **Allow**. This will start **Visual Studio** with the new project open. 
6.	In the **Team Explorer** window, click the **Clone this repository** link, accept the default values for the local repository location and click **Clone** 
7.	Next, click **New** in the **Solutions** section of the Team Explorer window. This will display the New Project dialog box. From there, click **SQL Server** in the list of installed templates, ensure that the **SQL Server Database Project** is selected, specify a project name, ensure that the **Add to source control** checkbox is selected, and click **OK**. This will create **Database1** project. 
8.	Click **Solution Explorer**. In the **Solution Explorer** window, right click **Database1**, in the drop-down menu, click **Add** and click **Table**.  
9.	In the **Add New Item – Database 1** dialog box, ensure that **Table** is selected and click Add.  
 
*We will accept the default table definition, since our intention is to demonstrate the process of continuous integration and continuous deployment, however, in real-life scenarios,your database structure would obviously be more elaborate. The process of configuring described in this lab would not change in this case.*
 
10.	In the Solution Explorer window, right-click **Database1** and, in the right-click menu, click **Properties**. In the **Project Settings** window, in the **Target platform** drop down list, click **Microsoft Azure SQL Database V12**. 
11.	Click **File** and, in the **File** menu, click **Save All**. 
12.	To commit the project to your repository, switch to the **Team Explorer** window, click **Changes**, enter a message describing the changes you made and click **Commit**.  
13.	Next, click the **Sync** link and then, on the Synchronization page within the Team Explorer window, in the **Outgoing Commits**, click **Push** to push changes to **VSTS**. 
14.	Switch back to the VSTS interface and refresh the project page. You will be presented with the **Set up Build** command button in the Use continuous integration. This will display the Create new build definition window.   
15.	In the Create new build definition window, click **Visual Studio** in the list of templates and click **Next**. Accept the default repository source, repository, default branch, enable the **Continuous integration (build whenever this branch is updated)** checkbox, and click **Create**.  
16.	On the Build tab of the Build Definitions page, accept the default sequence of build steps and click **Save**. 
17.	In the Save dialog box, specify a name describing the build definition (we will call it **Default Build**) and click **OK**.  
18.	Now you can queue the build by clicking **Queue new build** on the Build definitions page. On the **Queue build for Default Build**, accept the default settings and click **OK**. This will automatically display the Console view on the **Builds** tab in the **Build & Release** section, showing progress of the build process.  
 
*To validate the outcome, refresh the Builds tab, click Artifacts and click Explore. In the 
Artifacts Explorer window, drill down the folder hierarchy until you reach the DACPAC 
file generated by the build. This file will result in an update of a target Azure SQL	 
database during code releases once you configure continuous deployment.*
 
19.	Next, you need to create the target Azure SQL Database instance that you will deploy the build to by using continuous deployment. To accomplish this, start a new Internet Explorer window and browse to the Azure portal. If prompted, sign in with the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.  
20.	In the Azure portal, click **New**, on the **New** blade, click **Databases**, and, on the **Databases** blade, click **SQL Database**. 
21.	Create a new SQL Database with the following settings: 
    - Database name: **sqldb1**
    - Subscription: **your Azure subscription**
    - Resource group: **DevOpsLab4bRG** 
    - Select source: **Blank database** 
    - Server: **create a new server with the following settings:** 
        - Server name: **a unique, valid name** 
        - Server admin login: **Student**
        - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
        - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd** 
        - Location: **an Azure region close to the lab location**  
        - Allow azure services to access server: **Enabled** 
    - Want to use SQL elastic pool?: **Not now**  
    - Pricing tier: **Basic** 
    - Collation: **accept the default**
22.	Switch back to the VSTS interface and, in the **Build & Release** section, click the **Releases** tab and click **+ New definition**.  
23.	In the **Create release definition** window, click the **Empty** template and click **Next**. On the **Artifacts** page, make sure that the current settings point to the **Default Build** build definition you created earlier. Enable the **Continuous deployment (create release and deploy whenever a build completes** checkbox and click **Create**. This will create a new release definition and display its **Environments** tab. 
24.	On the Environments tab, click **Add tasks**.  
25.	In the **Task catalog** window, click **Add** next to **Azure SQL Database Deployment** and then click **Close**.  
26.	In the **Execute Azure SQL: DacpacTask** section, configure the following settings:  
    - Azure Connection Type: **Azure Resource Manager**  
    - Azure RM Subscription: the subscription where you created the Azure SQL database. Once you select it, click **Authorize** and, when prompted, sign in to your subscription.  
    - Azure SQL Server Name: **the name of Azure SQL server you created (including the .database.windows.net suffix)**  
    - Database Name: **sqldb1**  
    - Server Admin Login: **Student** 
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd** 
    - Type: **SQL DACPAC File**  
    - DACPAC File: the full path to the .DACPAC file included in the build. Click the ellipsis (…) on the right hand side and, in the Select File or Folder dialog box, drill down through the folder hierarchy to the Database1.dacpac file. 
    - Specify Firewall Rules Using: **AutoDetect** 
    - Delete Rule After Task Ends: **enabled**  
    - Control options: 
        - Enabled: **enabled**  
        - Continue on error: **leave cleared**  
        - Always run: **leave cleared**  
        -Timeout: **0**  
27.	Click **Save** and, in the **Save** dialog box, click **OK**. 
28.	Click **+Release**, followed by **Create Release** to initiate deployment of the DACPAC file to the target Azure SQL database.  
29.	In the Create new release window, click **Create**. Finally, click the link **Release-1**. 
30.	In the **Environments** section, monitor the status of the deployment and verify that the outcome was successful. 
 
